a second group of Israeli hostages in
exchange for Palestinian prisoners make
their way home there had been fears
tonight's deal was off Hamas the group
designated as a terrorist organization
by the UK had accused Israel of rening
on the temporary ceasefire agreement by
not allowing enough Aid trucks into Gaza
that led to a delay of several hours in
the freeing of the hostages all this
after yesterday's release of 13 Israeli
captives in return for 39 Palestinian
prisoners our first report tonight is
from
[Music]
aaran in t Aviv tonight streets thronged
with the demand for every Israeli
Hostage to be brought home from
Gaza this Gathering was called 50 days
of
hell and a second group of Israeli
hostages reaching the Gaza border
delayed by Hamas for hours but now on
the way to
Freedom racing into his father's arms
Ohad who was released
yesterday followed by his mother
Karen and his grandmother
ruy three generations who were held
hostage ruti's husband still
is as had caught up with friends his
family said Israel must free every last
hostage this was a belated birthday
party he turned nine in captivity
Shalom and crowded onto one bed the
ashers did you miss me yni
asks did you think about
daddy I dreamt about going home says Raz
who's
four your dream came true he says we're
going home soon Raz was held with her
mother doron and baby sister
Aviv in Gaza it's time to count the cost
of weeks of Israeli
bombardment the SE fire means
Palestinians have been able to return to
jabalia in the north the largest camp in
Gaza or what's left of
it we are unarmed says Mahmud mud we are
civilians we don't carry weapons and we
don't
resist why have they destroyed our
houses why are they killing our
children footage has now emerged on
social media of an Israeli officer in
Gaza taking a different view of the
destruction I dedicate this explosion to
my princess Ella he says today she's
[Applause]
two then he blows up a
building the Israeli Army has confirmed
to the BBC that these are its troops in
Gaza orar and BBC News Tel
Aviv AA we're hearing that uh the uh
second group of Israeli hostages has
arrived back here in Israel from Gaza
the delay of course a little bit earlier
this evening threatening to shut down
the whole deal tonight and that shows
the fragility of the deal between Israel
and
Hamas it does Clive we have confirmation
now that the group is back on Israeli
soil at 13 Israelis eight of them
children five of them women as well as
four Tha Nationals and this evening we
saw that delay of several hours caused
because Hamas said Israel had breached
the ceasefire agreement in several ways
which Israel denied now we had Qatar and
Egypt very quickly stepping in to
mediate remove what they call the
obstacles uh and the release went ahead
but after a few more hours of Anguish
for the families involved now we have
some detail tonight of those who have
been freed almost all are from a single
Community kibuts Berry which was near
the border with Gaza uh people may
remember it was one of the worst
affected communities around a 100 people
were killed there H and we do know that
one of those who has been released
tonight is the Irish Israeli hostage
Emily hand just 9 years old now people
may remember her father Thomas giving an
anguished interview when initially he
thought she had been killed and saying
in his grief that he was happy with that
rather than seeing her being a hostage
and tormented in Gaza he subsequently
found out she was alive and tonight she
is safe and well and back in Israel we
know that one other child has been
released a 12-year-old girl without her
mother who has been kept behind in Gaza
so once again tonight Clive the releases
are being welcomed but there is a sense
that this is bittersweet because many
Israeli hostages remain behind in Gaza
and it's unclear how long it will take
and indeed if it will be possible to get
the others home tomorrow another batch
are due to be released and one more
batch after that if the ceasefire holds
for the four days which it is initially
due to last
for all right all right we'll see what
happens Alla thank you all gear in
reporting for us there well a second
busload of Palestinian prisoners
released from Israeli jails has arrived
in the West Bank Town of betunia as part
of the deal agreed between Israel and
Hamas last night 39 women and teenagers
were released including 17-year-old
Muhammad ad dawish who was jailed this
summer following a conviction for
throwing Molotov cocktails at Israeli
soldiers Lucy Williamson went to meet
him at his home near
Amala yesterday Israeli prison guards
told Muhammad darsh he was being taken
out of jail for a court appearance 24
hours later he's back with his family
near rala one of the first prisoners to
be released under Israel's deal with
Hamas Muhammad was arrested in April and
convicted by military Court of throwing
Molotov cocktails at Israeli
soldiers his father said last night was
the first time he'd seen or spoken to
his son in seven
months the reunion was Indescribable he
said his first word to his son as he met
him off the
bus Habibi my
love Muhammad told me he was dizzy with
happiness as he stepped off the bus to
meet his
family so you spent s months of your
life since the 7th of October attacks he
said the only source of information
inside the jail was new arrivals who he
said sometimes arrived with broken teeth
and large cuts to the head that were
left
untreated the next day they took out the
cookers the TV and the radios all
Communications was removed we were
totally
isolated they only gave us one portion
of food between seven we were always
hungry after the 30th of October they
removed our blankets it was freezing
cold Israel couldn't do anything to Gaza
so they punished us the Israel prison
service said all prisoners were detained
according to the law and had the right
to file a complaint you were released
because Hamas took hostages women and
children that were released yesterday in
exchange for Palestinian prisoners how
do you feel towards those
hostages they were guests of ham living
in heaven we were in prison being
tortured living in
Hell tonight crowds gathered at petunia
checkpoint again to wait for the next
group of released prisoners to arrive
the green flags of Hamas have multiplied
here since yesterday Keen to burnish its
brand as the Palestinian group that will
do whatever it takes to force Israel's
hand Lucy Williamson BBC News petunia